Update meeds (#34)
exoplatform/developer.exoplatform.org: content/sources/contributions.adoc

== Issues references

To keep history about a new feature or a fix, we need to add a reference in the commit message.

=== New Feature

When eXo Platform wants to develop a new feature, we usually have the US described in an eXo Tribe task. If the feature is only about exoplatform repositories, we can only keep the task. But if some meeds-io repositories are impacted, we need to communicate publicly on this new feature and fill a "Feature Request" issue on github : in the repository https://github.com/Meeds-io/meeds[meeds] : choose the tab "Issues" and create a new issue of type "Feature Request". Follow the template to describe your feature request.

----
**Is your feature request related to a problem? Please describe.**
A clear and concise description of what the problem is. Ex. I'm always frustrated when [...]

**Describe the solution you'd like**
A clear and concise description of what you want to happen.

**Describe alternatives you've considered**
A clear and concise description of any alternative solutions or features you've considered.

**Additional context**
Add any other context or screenshots about the feature request here.
----

=== Fixes

> When eXo Platform wants to fix something, the problem description is usually in an eXo Tribe task. If the fix is only localized on exoplatform repositories, we can keep only the task. But if some meeds-io repositories are impacted, we need to communicate publicly on this fix and fill a "Bug Report" issue on github : in the repository https://github.com/Meeds-io/meeds[meeds] : choose the tab "Issues" and create a new issue of type "Bug Report". Follow the template to describe the problem and how you fix it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When eXo Platform wants to fix something, the problem description is usually in an eXo Tribe task. If the fix is only located on exoplatform repositories, we can keep only the task. But if some meeds-io repositories are impacted, we need to communicate publicly on this fix and fill a "Bug Report" issue on github : in the repository https://github.com/Meeds-io/meeds[meeds] : choose the tab "Issues" and create a new issue of type "Bug Report". Follow the template to describe the problem and how you fix it.
```

----
**Steps to reproduce**

Steps to reproduce the behavior:
1. Go to '...'
2. Click on '....'
3. Scroll down to '....'
4. See error

If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem.

**(optional) Affected version**

Indicate the version where the bug is observed.

**Current behaviour**

Describe the bug with a clear and concise description of what the problem is.

**Expected behavior**

A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

**(optional) Affected environments**
Please complete the following information:
 - OS: [e.g. iOS]
 - Browser [e.g. chrome, safari]
 - Version [e.g. 22]
 - Device: [e.g. iPhone6]
----

== Commits messages best practices

It is often important to browse the source code history to understand when and why a change has been done. Good commits message are therefore crucial to help developers in maintaining a code base.

> In addition, to facilitate the release note creation, we use https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/["Conventional commit"] convention.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, to facilitate the release note creation, we use https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/["Conventional Commits"].
```

----
when committing a change, in order to write a more detailed commit message and use the commit template

> * the commit message must start with a keyword 'fix:' or 'feature:' according to the type of the commit, then a short subject (max 100 characters). It must describe briefly what the commit does.The line must end with the issue references : the github issue (if we are in a meeds-io repository) and the task reference. For example :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* the commit message must start with a keyword 'fix:' or 'feature:' according to the type of the commit, then a short subject (max 100 characters). It must describe briefly what the commit does. The line must end with the github issue reference (only on a meeds-io repositories) AND the task reference. For example :
```

> * the commit message must start with a keyword 'fix:' or 'feature:' in function of the type of the commine, then a short subject (max 100 characters). It must describes briefly what the commit does.The line must end with the issue references : the github issue (if we are in a meeds-io repository) and the task reference. For example :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* the commit message must start with a keyword 'fix:' or 'feature:' according to the type of the commit, then a short subject (max 100 characters). It must describe briefly what the commit does.The line must end with the issue references : the github issue (if we are in a meeds-io repository) and the task reference. For example :
```

----
fix: Allow to update kudos message in activity stream - EXO-40308 - meeds-io/meeds#1234
----

> * the commit subject must not be a copy/paste of the Task issue summary. As said previously, it must describe what the commit does, as if the sentence would start with “If applied, this commit will …”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* the commit subject must not be a copy/paste of the Task issue summary. As said previously, it must describe what the commit does, as if the sentence would start with “If applied, this commit would …”.
```

* after the subject, one blank line must be added before starting the body

> * the body describes in details what the commit does and must answer 2 questions :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* the body describes in detail what the commit does and must answer 2 questions :
```

[source,shell]
----

> # fix/feature: (If applied, this commit will...) <subject> - EXO-<task-id> - meeds-io/meeds#<github-issue>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# fix/feature: (If applied, this commit would...) <subject> - EXO-<task-id> - meeds-io/meeds#<github-issue>
```

== Pull Requests best practices

> As well as good commits messages are important for code base maintainers, good PRs descriptions are important for reviewers. It helps to understand what the developer has done and why. The PR title must start with the keyword fix or feature, then describe briefly what the PR does, then references the task id and the github issue if needed. For example :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As much as good commits messages are important for code base maintainers, good PR descriptions are important for reviewers. They help to understand what the developer has done and why. The PR title must start with the keyword fix or feature, then describe briefly what the PR does, then reference the task id and the github issue if needed. For example :
```

----

> fix: Allow to update kudos message in activity stream - EXO-40308 - meeds-io/meeds#1234

Reviewer 2: `meeds-io/meeds#1234` may not be added in the title in fact to make a link to associated issue, see this example : https://github.com/Meeds-io/gatein-portal/commit/b3db0ce3dece039c1b6cae16a040bcd040555622

( Two way links are added in PR and issue )

Author: Do you that, if I put meeds-io/meeds#1234 in the title, it will not be changed to a link ?

If we want the issue reference in the release note, we need to have this reference in the title

Author: cc @boubaker

Reviewer 2: Yep, it would be better to add the reference of Github issue link in description and the EXO/MEED task issue in title. @rdenarie

When reviewing a Pull Request, the following things must be checked:

> * Title and commit message : does it respect guideline format (https://developer.exoplatform.org/#id-commits-messages-best-practices)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Title and commit message : does it respect guideline format (https://developer.exoplatform.org/#id-commits-messages-best-practices) ?
```

* Correctness of the fix/feature
* Coding best practices
* Does the code is the simpliest possible ?

> * Should it imply a refactoring to make something simplier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Should it imply a refactoring to make something simplier ?
```

* Code Format
* If there are new files, check headers

> * If there is a new library or dependency, was it validated by architectes ? What about the library licence ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If there is a new library or dependency? Was it validated by architects ? What about the library's license ?
```

> * If there is a new visual component, was it validated by Design Guild ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If there is a new visual component? Was it validated by Designers Guild ?
```

> * Check Performance : check loop, sql queries ... ask if the loop or the query can have a larger number of elements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Check Performance : check loops, sql queries ... ask if the loop or the query can have a larger number of elements
```
